Bryn Freedman:
You're a guy whose company funds these AI programs and invests.
So why should we trust you to not have a bias and tell us something really useful for the rest of us about the future of work?
Roy Bahat:
Yes, I am.
And when you wake up in the morning and you read the newspaper and it says, "The robots are coming, they may take all our jobs," as a start-up investor focused on the future of work, our fund was the first one to say artificial intelligence should be a focus for us.
So I woke up one morning and read that and said, "Oh, my gosh, they're talking about me.
That's me who's doing that."
And then I thought: wait a minute.
If things continue, then maybe not only will the start-ups in which we invest struggle because there won't be people to have jobs to pay for the things that they make and buy them, but our economy and society might struggle, too.
And look, I should be the guy who sits here and tells you, "Everything is going to be fine.
It's all going to work out great.
Hey, when they introduced the ATM machine, years later, there's more tellers in banks."
It's true.
And yet, when I looked at it, I thought, "This is going to accelerate.
And if it does accelerate, there's a chance the center doesn't hold."
But I figured somebody must know the answer to this; there are so many ideas out there.
And I read all the books, and I went to the conferences, and at one point, we counted more than 100 efforts to study the future of work.
And it was a frustrating experience, because I'd hear the same back-and-forth over and over again: "The robots are coming!"
And then somebody else would say, "Oh, don't worry about that, they've always said that and it turns out OK."
Then somebody else would say, "Well, it's really about the meaning of your job, anyway."
And then everybody would shrug and go off and have a drink.
And it felt like there was this Kabuki theater of this discussion, where nobody was talking to each other.
And many of the people that I knew and worked with in the technology world were not speaking to policy makers; the policy makers were not speaking to them.
And so we partnered with a nonpartisan think tank NGO called New America to study this issue.
And we brought together a group of people, including an AI czar at a technology company and a video game designer and a heartland conservative and a Wall Street investor and a socialist magazine editor -- literally, all in the same room; it was occasionally awkward -- to try to figure out what is it that will happen here.
The question we asked was simple.
What is the effect of technology on work going to be?
And we looked out 10 to 20 years, because we wanted to look out far enough that there could be real change, but soon enough that we weren't talking about teleportation or anything like that.
And we recognized -- and I think every year we're reminded of this in the world -- that predicting what's going to happen is hard.
So instead of predicting, there are other things you can do.
You can try to imagine alternate possible futures, which is what we did.
We did a scenario-planning exercise, and we imagined cases where no job is safe.
We imagined cases where every job is safe.
And we imagined every distinct possibility we could.
And the result, which really surprised us, was when you think through those futures and you think what should we do, the answers about what we should do actually turn out to be the same, no matter what happens.
And the irony of looking out 10 to 20 years into the future is, you realize that the things we want to act on are actually already happening right now. 
The automation is right now, the future is right now.
BF:
So what does that mean, and what does that tell us?
If the future is now, what is it that we should be doing, and what should we be thinking about?
RB:
We have to understand the problem first.
And so the data are that as the economy becomes more productive and individual workers become more productive, their wages haven't risen.
If you look at the proportion of prime working-age men, in the United States at least, who work now versus in 1960, we have three times as many men not working.
And then you hear the stories.
I sat down with a group of Walmart workers and said, "What do you think about this cashier, this futuristic self-checkout thing?"
They said, "That's nice, but have you heard about the cash recycler?
That's a machine that's being installed right now, and is eliminating two jobs at every Walmart right now."
And so we just thought, "Geez.
We don't understand the problem."
And so we looked at the voices that were the ones that were excluded, which is all of the people affected by this change.
And we decided to listen to them, sort of "automation and its discontents."
And I've spent the last couple of years doing that.
I've been to Flint, Michigan, and Youngstown, Ohio, talking about entrepreneurs, trying to make it work in a very different environment from New York or San Francisco or London or Tokyo.
I've been to prisons twice to talk to inmates about their jobs after they leave.
I've sat down with truck drivers to ask them about the self-driving truck, with people who, in addition to their full-time job, care for an aging relative.
And when you talk to people, there were two themes that came out loud and clear.
The first one was that people are less looking for more money or get out of the fear of the robot taking their job, and they just want something stable.
They want something predictable.
So if you survey people and ask them what they want out of work, for everybody who makes less than 150,000 dollars a year, they'll take a more stable and secure income, on average, over earning more money.
And if you think about the fact that not only for all of the people across the earth who don't earn a living, but for those who do, the vast majority earn a different amount from month to month and have an instability, all of a sudden you realize, "Wait a minute.
We have a real problem on our hands."
And the second thing they say, which took us a longer time to understand, is they say they want dignity.
And that concept of self-worth through work emerged again and again and again in our conversations.